MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
As described further throughout this Executive Summary, Citi
demonstrated continued progress across the franchise during
2022:
• Citi’s revenues increased 5% versus the prior year,
including net gains on sales of Citi’s Philippines and
Thailand consumer banking businesses versus a loss on
sale of Citi’s Australia consumer banking business in the
prior year. Excluding these divestiture-related impacts
(see “2022 Results Summary” below), revenues increased
3%, driven by higher net interest income, partially offset
by lower non-interest revenues.
• Citi’s expenses increased 6% versus the prior year,
including divestiture-related impacts in both the current
and prior years. Excluding these divestiture-related
impacts (see “2022 Results Summary” below), expenses
increased 8%, driven by continued investments in Citi’s
transformation, business-led investments and volumerelated expenses, as well as other risk and control
investments and inflation, all partially offset by
productivity savings, the impact of foreign exchange
translation and the expense reduction from the closure of
five exit markets (see also “Expenses” below).
• Citi’s cost of credit was $5.2 billion, versus $(3.8) billion
in the prior year, largely reflecting a net build of $1.2
billion in the allowance for credit losses (ACL) for loans
and unfunded commitments, primarily due to consumer
loan growth and a deterioration in macroeconomic
assumptions, compared to a net ACL release of $8.8
billion in the prior year.
• Citi returned $7.3 billion to common shareholders in the
form of dividends and share repurchases.
• Citi’s Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital ratio
increased to 13.0% as of December 31, 2022, compared to
12.2% as of December 31, 2021 (for additional
information, see “Capital Resources” below). Citi’s
required regulatory CET1 Capital ratio was 12.0% as of
January 1, 2023, under the Basel III Standardized
Approach.
• Citi made substantial progress on its consumer banking
business divestitures in 2022, closing sales in five exit
markets and working toward closing four additional sale
transactions, as well as progressing with the ongoing
wind-downs of the Korea consumer banking business and
Russia consumer, local commercial and institutional
businesses.
2022 Results Summary
Citigroup
Citigroup reported net income of $14.8 billion, or $7.00 per
share, compared to net income of $22.0 billion, or $10.14 per
share in the prior year. The decrease in net income was
primarily driven by the higher cost of credit, resulting from
loan growth in Personal Banking and Wealth Management
(PBWM) and a deterioration in macroeconomic assumptions,
and the higher operating expenses, partially offset by the
higher revenues. Citigroup’s effective tax rate was 19.4% in
the current year versus 19.8% in the prior year. Earnings per
share (EPS) decreased 31%, reflecting the decrease in net
income, partially offset by a 4% decline in average diluted
shares outstanding.
As discussed above, results for 2022 included divestiturerelated impacts of approximately $(184) million in after-tax
earnings, substantially all of which were recorded in Legacy
Franchises (for additional information, see discussion below).
Collectively, divestiture-related impacts had a $0.09 negative
impact on EPS. This compares to divestiture-related negative
impacts on EPS of $0.80 in 2021. (As used throughout this
Form 10-K, Citi’s results of operations and financial condition
excluding the divestiture-related impacts are non-GAAP
financial measures. Citi believes the presentation of its results
of operations and financial condition excluding the divestiturerelated impacts described above provides a meaningful
depiction of the underlying fundamentals of its broader results
and Legacy Franchises’ results for investors, industry analysts
and others.)
Results for 2022 included pretax divestiture-related
impacts of approximately $82 million (approximately $(184)
million after-tax), substantially all of which were recorded in
Legacy Franchises, primarily consisting of the following:
• Approximately $618 million Philippines gain on sale
recorded in revenues
• Approximately $209 million Thailand gain on sale
recorded in revenues
• Approximately $(64) million incremental Australia
consumer business loss on sale recorded in revenues
• Approximately $535 million goodwill impairment
recorded in expenses due to re-segmentation and timing
of divestitures
• Approximately $161 million of aggregate divestiturerelated costs
Results for 2021 included pretax divestiture-related
impacts of $(1.9) billion (approximately $(1.6) billion aftertax) in Legacy Franchises, which primarily consisted of the
following:
• Approximately $(694) million Australia loss on sale
recorded in revenues
• Approximately $1.1 billion related to charges incurred
from the voluntary early retirement program (VERP) in
connection with the wind-down of the Korea consumer
banking business recorded in expenses
• Contract modification costs related to the Asia
divestitures of $119 million
Citigroup revenues of $75.3 billion increased 5% versus
the prior year. Excluding the divestiture-related impacts,
revenues were up 3%, as the impact of higher interest rates
across businesses and strong loan growth in PBWM were
partially offset by declines in Banking in Institutional Clients
3
Group (ICG) and Asia investment product revenue in Global
Wealth Management (Global Wealth), as well as the reduction
in revenues from the closure of five exit markets and ongoing
wind-downs.
Citigroup’s end-of-period loans were $657 billion, down
2% versus the prior year, largely driven by Legacy Franchises
and the impact of foreign exchange translation. The decline in
Legacy Franchises primarily reflected the reclassification of
loans to Other assets to reflect held-for-sale (HFS) accounting,
as a result of the signing of sale agreements for consumer
banking businesses in Asia Consumer Banking (Asia
Consumer), as well as the impact of the ongoing Korea and
Russia wind-downs.
Citigroup’s end-of-period deposits were $1.4 trillion, up
4% versus the prior year, largely driven by Treasury and trade
solutions in ICG, partially offset by the impact of foreign
exchange translation.
Expenses
Citigroup’s operating expenses of $51.3 billion increased 6%
in 2022. Reported expenses included divestiture-related
impacts of approximately $696 million in the current year and
approximately $1.2 billion in the prior year, substantially all of
which were recorded in Legacy Franchises. Excluding these
divestiture-related impacts, expenses increased 8% versus the
prior year, largely driven by the following:
• Approximately 2% by transformation investments, with
about two-thirds related to the risk, controls, data and
finance programs (approximately 25% of the program
investments were related to technology).
• Approximately 1% by business-led investments, as Citi
continues to hire commercial and investment bankers, as
well as client advisors in Global Wealth, and continues to
invest in client experience, front-office platforms and
onboarding.
• Approximately 1% by higher volume-related expenses
across both PBWM and ICG.
• Approximately 3% by other risk and control investments
and inflation, partially offset by a Revlon-related wire
transfer recovery, productivity savings, the impact of
foreign exchange translation and the expense reduction
from the exit markets.
Citi expects to incur higher expenses in 2023, primarily
driven by transformation-related investments, volume-related
expenses and inflation-related impacts.
Cost of Credit
Citi’s total provisions for credit losses and for benefits and
claims was a cost of $5.2 billion, compared to a benefit of $3.8
billion in the prior year. Results in 2022 included net credit
losses of $3.8 billion versus $4.9 billion in the prior year. The
higher cost of credit was driven by the net build of $1.2 billion
in the ACL for loans and unfunded commitments, compared to
a net ACL release of $8.8 billion in the prior year, partially
offset by the lower net credit losses. The net ACL build was
primarily due to cards loan growth in PBWM and a
deterioration in macroeconomic assumptions. For additional
information on Citi’s ACL, see “Significant Accounting
Policies and Significant Estimates—Citi’s Allowance for
Credit Losses (ACL)” below.
Net credit losses of $3.8 billion decreased 23% from the
prior year, largely driven by lower consumer net credit losses.
Consumer net credit losses decreased 20% to $3.6 billion,
reflecting low loss rates in the first half of 2022, followed by
the ongoing normalization of losses toward pre-pandemic
levels, particularly in Retail services cards business in PBWM.
Corporate net credit losses decreased 54% to $178 million,
largely driven by improvements in portfolio credit quality.
Citi expects to incur higher net credit losses in 2023,
primarily driven by continued normalization toward prepandemic levels, particularly in the cards business in PBWM.
For additional information on Citi’s consumer and
corporate credit costs, see each respective business’s results of
operations and “Credit Risk” below.
Capital
Citigroup’s CET1 Capital ratio was 13.0% as of December
31, 2022, compared to 12.2% as of December 31, 2021, based
on the Basel III Standardized Approach for determining riskweighted assets (RWA). The increase was primarily driven by
net income, impacts from the closing of the Australia,
Philippines and other Asia consumer banking business sales
and business actions to reduce RWA, partially offset by the
return of capital to common shareholders and interest rate
impacts on Citigroup’s investment portfolio. The increase in
Citi’s CET1 Capital ratio was also partially offset by the
impact of adopting the Standardized Approach for
Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR) on January 1, 2022.
Citigroup’s Supplementary Leverage ratio as of
December 31, 2022 was 5.8%, compared to 5.7% as of
December 31, 2021. The increase was driven by a decrease in
Total Leverage Exposure, partly offset by lower Tier 1
Capital. For additional information on Citi’s capital ratios and
related components, see “Capital Resources” below.
Citi has continued to pause common share repurchases in
order to absorb any temporary capital impacts related to any
potential signing of a sale agreement for its Mexico Consumer
and Small Business and Middle-Market Banking (Mexico
Consumer/SBMM) business (for additional information, see
“Macroeconomic and Other Risks and Uncertainties” and the
capital return risk factor in “Risk Factors” below) and to
continue to have ample capital to serve its clients.
Institutional Clients Group
ICG net income of $10.7 billion decreased 25%, driven by a
net ACL release in the prior year, versus a net ACL build in
the current year, and higher expenses, partially offset by
higher revenues. ICG operating expenses of $26.3 billion
increased 10%, primarily driven by continued investment in
Citi’s transformation, business-led investments and volumerelated expenses, partially offset by a Revlon-related wire
transfer recovery, the impact of foreign exchange translation
and productivity savings.
ICG revenues of $41.2 billion increased 3% (including
losses on loan hedges), as revenue growth in Services and
Markets was partially offset by lower revenues in Banking.
Results included a gain on loan hedges of $307 million,
4
compared with a loss on loan hedges of $140 million in the
prior year.
Services revenues of $16.0 billion increased 27%.
Treasury and trade solutions (TTS) revenues of $12.2 billion
increased 32%, driven by 46% growth in net interest income
and 10% growth in non-interest revenue. The strong
performance in TTS was driven by the benefit of higher
interest rates, as well as business actions, including balance
sheet optimization and managing deposit pricing, deepening of
relationships with existing clients and an increase in new
clients across segments. Securities services revenues of $3.9
billion increased 15%, as net interest income increased 59%,
driven by higher interest rates across currencies, as well as the
impact of foreign exchange translation, partially offset by a
1% decrease in non-interest revenue due to the impact of
lower global financial markets.
Markets revenues of $19.1 billion increased 7% versus the
prior year, largely driven by Fixed income markets, partially
offset by lower client activity levels in Equity markets, as well
as business actions to reduce RWA. Fixed income markets
revenues of $14.6 billion increased 13%, driven by strength in
rates and currencies. Equity markets revenues of $4.6 billion
were down 9%, largely reflecting reduced client activity in
equity derivatives versus the prior year.
Banking revenues of $6.1 billion decreased 35%,
including the gain on loan hedges in the current year and loss
on loan hedges in the prior year. Excluding the gain and loss
on loan hedges, Banking revenues of $5.8 billion decreased
39%, driven by lower revenues in Investment banking and
Corporate lending. Investment banking revenues of $3.1
billion decreased 53%, as heightened macroeconomic
uncertainty and volatility continued to impact client activity.
Excluding the gain and loss on loan hedges, Corporate lending
revenues decreased 8% versus the prior year, driven by the
impact of foreign currency translation, higher cost of funds
and higher hedging costs.
For additional information on the results of operations of
ICG in 2022, see “Institutional Clients Group” below.
Personal Banking and Wealth Management
PBWM net income of $3.3 billion decreased 57% versus the
prior year, largely driven by a net ACL release in the prior
year versus a net ACL build in the current year, as well as
higher expenses. PBWM operating expenses of $16.3 billion
increased 11%, primarily driven by continued investments in
Citi’s transformation, other risk and control initiatives,
volume-related expenses and business-led investments,
partially offset by productivity savings.
PBWM revenues of $24.2 billion increased 4% versus the
prior year, as net interest income growth, driven by strong loan
growth across Branded cards and Retail services and higher
interest rates, was partially offset by a decline in non-interest
revenue, driven by lower investment product revenue in
Global Wealth and higher partner payments in Retail services.
U.S. Personal Banking revenues of $16.8 billion increased
7% versus the prior year. Branded cards revenues of $8.9
billion increased 9%, driven by higher net interest income. In
Branded cards, new account acquisitions increased 11%, card
spend volumes increased 16% and average loans increased
11%. Retail services revenues of $5.5 billion increased 7%,
driven by higher net interest income, partially offset by higher
partner payments. Retail banking revenues of $2.5 billion were
largely unchanged versus the prior year, as higher interest
income and modest deposit growth were offset by lower
mortgage revenues due to fewer mortgage originations.
Global Wealth revenues of $7.4 billion decreased 2%
versus the prior year, as investment product revenue
headwinds, particularly in Asia, more than offset net interest
income growth from higher interest rates and higher loan and
deposit volumes.
For additional information on the results of operations of
PBWM in 2022, see “Personal Banking and Wealth
Management” below.
Legacy Franchises
Legacy Franchises net loss of $12 million compared to net
income of $1 million in the prior year, primarily driven by
higher cost of credit, partially offset by lower expenses and
higher revenues, primarily reflecting the Philippines and
Thailand gains on sales in the current year and the Australia
loss on sale in the prior year. Legacy Franchises expenses of
$7.8 billion decreased 6%, largely driven by the absence of the
Korea VERP charge in the prior year and the benefit from
closing the five exit markets, partially offset by the $535
million goodwill impairment, an approximate $70 million
impairment of long-lived assets related to the Russia consumer
banking business and $156 million of other aggregate
divestiture-related costs.
Legacy Franchises revenues of $8.5 billion increased 3%
versus the prior year, primarily driven by the Philippines and
Thailand gains on sale versus the Australia loss on sale in the
prior year. Excluding these divestiture-related impacts,
revenues decreased 15%, primarily driven by the reduction in
revenues from the closings of the five exit markets, as well as
the impact of the ongoing Korea and Russia wind-downs.
For additional information on the results of operations of
Legacy Franchises in 2022, see “Legacy Franchises” below.
Corporate/Other
Corporate/Other net income was $879 million, compared to a
net loss of $8 million in the prior year, reflecting higher
revenue and lower expenses, partially offset by lower income
tax benefits, as well as the second quarter of 2022 release of a
CTA (cumulative translation adjustment) loss (net of hedges)
from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI)
related to the substantial liquidation of a legacy U.K.
consumer operation, recorded in discontinued operations.
Corporate/Other operating expenses of $953 million
decreased 31%, primarily driven by lower consulting expenses
and the impact of certain legal settlements.
Corporate/Other revenues of $1.4 billion increased from
$0.5 billion in the prior year, driven by higher net interest
income, primarily from the investment portfolio, partially
offset by lower non-interest revenue, primarily due to the
absence of mark-to-market gains in the prior year as well as
higher hedging costs.
For additional information on the results of operations of
Corporate/Other in 2022, see “Corporate/Other” below.
5
Macroeconomic and Other Risks and Uncertainties
Various geopolitical and macroeconomic challenges and
uncertainties continue to adversely impact economic
conditions in the U.S. and globally. The U.S. and other
countries have continued to experience significantly elevated
levels of inflation, resulting in central banks implementing a
series of interest rates increases, with additional increases
expected in the near term. In addition to causing a
humanitarian crisis, the war in Ukraine continues to disrupt
energy and food markets. An economic rebound in China
remains uncertain, due to the ongoing impacts from
COVID-19, the amount of leverage in its economy and stress
in the property sector. These and other factors have adversely
affected financial markets, negatively impacted global
economic growth rates, contributed to lower consumer
confidence and increased the risk of recession in Europe, the
U.S. and other countries. These and other factors could
adversely affect Citi’s customers, clients, businesses, funding
costs, expenses and results during 2023.
In addition, Citi could incur a significant loss on sale in
2023, due to CTA losses (net of hedges) in AOCI, goodwill
write-offs and other AOCI loss components, related to the
potential signing of a sale agreement for any of its remaining
consumer banking divestitures. The majority of these losses
would be regulatory capital neutral at closing.
For a further discussion of trends, uncertainties and risks
that will or could impact Citi’s businesses, results of
operations, capital and other financial condition during 2023,
see “2022 Results Summary” above and “Risk Factors,” each
respective business’s results of operations and “Managing
Global Risk,” including “Managing Global Risk—Other Risks
—Country Risk—Russia,” below.
CITI’S CONSENT ORDER COMPLIANCE
Citi has embarked on a multiyear transformation, with the
target outcome to change Citi’s business and operating models
such that they simultaneously strengthen risk and controls and
improve Citi’s value to customers, clients and shareholders.
This includes efforts to effectively implement the October
2020 Federal Reserve Board (FRB) and Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) consent orders issued to
Citigroup and Citibank, respectively. In the second quarter of
2021, Citi made an initial submission to the OCC, and
submitted its plans to address the consent orders to both
regulators during the third quarter of 2021. Citi continues to
work constructively with the regulators and provides to both
regulators on an ongoing basis additional information
regarding its plans and progress. Citi will continue to reflect
their feedback in its project plans and execution efforts.
As discussed above, Citi’s efforts include continued
investments in its transformation, including the remediation of
its consent orders. Citi’s CEO has made the strengthening of
Citi’s risk and control environment a strategic priority and has
established a Chief Administrative Officer organization to
centralize program management. In addition, the Citigroup
and Citibank Boards of Directors each formed a
Transformation Oversight Committee, an ad hoc committee of
each Board, to provide oversight of management’s
remediation efforts under the consent orders. The Citi Board
of Directors has determined that Citi’s plans are responsive to
the Company’s objectives and that progress continues to be
made on execution of the plans.
For additional information about the consent orders, see
“Risk Factors—Compliance Risks” below and Citi’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 7, 2020. 